Deep learning methods outperform hand-coded systems relying on manual feature
engineering on a large variety of language tasks [??].  The price to pay for
this remarkable performance is a very data-hungry training process.  While this
may be a reasonable price to pay when the training is done in an "offline"
fashion (for example, machine translation systems that are trained once and for
all with a fixed training set), it may be that for "online" learning systems
where each learning interaction is more costly and thus, fast learning is
paramount, deep learning might just not do. For example, Wang et al. (2016)
describe SHRDLURN, a game where a system has to operate on piles of colored
blocks following natural language instructions written by a human user. While
the system knows nothing about the language that the user will use, it does
have hand-coded knowledge about the nature of the operations that it can
execute on this world, and how they compose. While this assumption is
reasonable for this toy domain, in the long run, it may be desirable to adopt
end-to-end systems that can learn the target function with no need of manual
encoding. 

In this work we aim at bridging these two seemingly contradictory requirements
--fast learning on one end, and flexibility on the other-- proposing a two
step training regime. First, we train an end-to-end architecture to play
SHRDLURN using utterances drawn from a (large)  artificial grammar. This step
allows the system to learn the space of possible commands in this game. Next,
we use the pre-trained system on an online learning phase, where it has to
quickly adapt to the language of the current speaker, which can be completely
different to the one it was trained on. We explore two different adaptation
strategies. One, following Herbelot et al. (2017), we apply plain gradient
descent on the new training instances, albeit with a relatively higher learning
rate. Second, we propose a new system architecture that can choose to re-use
previously learned word embeddings as an educated guess for what a new word
could mean.  

Our preliminary results on the first phrase show that, as expected, when
trained on the artificial grammar the high-bias log-linear model proposed by
Wang et al. learns very quickly but at the same time it also soon hits a
performance roof that it cannot perforate. On the other hand, even though our
deep architecture must be trained for several epochs to reach reasonable
performance (thus preventing the model to be readily deployed for human
interaction without this pre-training phase), it reaches very good
generalization performance. Both models are evaluated on commands and block
piles configuration that were unattested at training time.  <Describe
evaluation on new word learning if we have some results there>

This is work in progress at the moment. Our final aim is to evaluate the system
on the naturalistic data collected by Wang et al. for this game. TODO: add some
conclusions.


References:

Wang, Sida I., Percy Liang, and Christopher D. Manning. "Learning language
games through interaction." arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.02447 (2016).

Herbelot, Aurélie, and Marco Baroni. "High-risk learning: acquiring new word
vectors from tiny data." arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06556 (2017).
